The Official
Gazette
31 January 2023 - The First Edition
The Official Gazette
The First Edition - The Fifty-Second Year
Contents Pages
Laws
Law No. (16) of 2022 Concerning The Licensing of The Drivers and
Vehicles in The Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 5
Law No. (1) of 2023 Concerning the establishment of Abu Dhabi
Transport Company “Public Joint Stock Company”. 8
Law No. (4) of 2023 Concerning The Establishment of Abu Dhabi
Media Office. 14
Decrees
Amiri Decree No. (3) of 2023 Concerning Some Members of the
Executive Council in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 25
Executive Council Resolutions
Executive Council Resolution No. (169) of 2022 Concerning the
Thirty-First Investment Zone in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 29
Executive Council Resolution No. (182) of 2022 Concerning the
General Policy for the Management, Regulation and Protection of
Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 34
*Attachment: General Policy for the Management, Regulation and Protection of
Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi 35
Executive Council Resolution No. (183) of 2022 Concerning the
Amendment of Some Provisions of Chairman of the Executive
Council Resolution No. (25) of 2006 Concerning the Issuance of the
Executive Regulation of Law No. (23) Of 2005 Concerning Health
Insurance in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 45
*Attachment: Schedule No. (6) Flexible Health Insurance Benefits. 50
1
Executive Council Resolution no. (2) of 2023 concerning the
Establishment of a Free Zone Specialised in the Military and Security
Sector within Tawazun Industrial Park. 57
Executive Council Resolution No. (4) of 2023 concerning The
Reformation of the Committee of Objections and the Remuneration
of its Members. 59
Executive Council Resolution No. (6) of 2023 concerning The
Regulation of Appointment to the Positions of Experts and Consultants
in Governmental Entities. 60
*Attachment: Regulation Concerning the Appointment to the Positions of Experts and
61
Consultants in Governmental Entities.
2
Laws
3
swaL

Law No. (16) of 2022
Concerning The Licensing of The Drivers and Vehicles
in The Emirate of Abu Dhabi
We, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler of Abu Dhabi,
Having reviewed:
• Law No. (1) of 1974 concerning the reorganisation of the Governmental
body in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and its amendments;
• Law no. (2) of 1971 concerning the National Advisory Council and its
amendments;
• Law no. (19) of 2006 concerning the Regulation of tansportation via taxis
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and its amendments;
• Law no. (30) of 2019 concerning the establishment of the Department of
Municipalities and Transport;
• Law no. (1) of 2020 concerning the General Headquarters of Abu Dhabi
Police, and its amendments;
• Federal Law no. (21) of 1995 concerning the Traffic, and its amendments;
and
• Based on what was presented to and approved by the Executive Council,
Issued the following Law:
Article (1)
• The Integrated Transport Centre shall assume the licensing of the drivers
and vehicles as well as all related competencies and duties in the Emirate
of Abu Dhabi in accordance with the legislations in force.
• The Centre may assign some of its competencies stipulated in the previous
paragraph of this Article to any other governmental entity or to the private
sector, upon the approval of the Executive Council.
• The competencies mentioned in Paragraph 1 of this Article may be
transferred to any other entity by a resolution of the Executive Council.
5
Article (2)
• Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters shall, in coordination with the
Department of Municipalities and Transport, specify the following:
1. The assets, movables, properties, rights, obligations, and budgets related
to the licensing of drivers and vehicles to be transferred to the Integrated
Transport Centre; this shall be submitted to the Executive Council for
approval.
2. The members of Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters whose work is
related to the licensing of drivers and vehicles who are delegated to the
Centre in accordance with the legislations in force.
• Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters shall keep the Unified Federal
Traffic and Licensing System and its databases, and allow the concerned
persons at the Department of Municipalities and Transport and the
Integrated Transport Centre to use the said System. In all cases, the
establishment of new systems of traffic and licensing in the Emirate shall
be made in coordination between Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters
and the Department of Municipalities and Transport, following the approval
of the Executive Council.
Article 3
Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters will continue to provide support for
all operations of licensing the drivers and vehicles until full completion of the
transfer process aforesaid in Article 2 of this Law.
Article 4
Subject to the legislations in force, and upon coordination with the relevant
entities:
• The Chairman of the Department of Municipalities and Transport shall, upon
approval of the Executive Council, issue the executive and organisational
regulations related to the licensing of drivers and vehicles in the Emirate.
• The Chairman of the Department of Municipalities and Transport shall
issue the executive and operational resolutions and policies deemed
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this Law.
6
Article 5
The regulations, resolutions, policies and circulars in force shall remain
applicable in a manner that does not contradict the provisions of this Law,
until the issuance of the regulations, resolutions, policies and circulars
deemed necessary for implementation thereof.
Article 6
Any provision contrary to the provisions of this Law shall be repealed.
Article 7
This Law shall be effective from the date of its issuance and published in the
Official Gazette.
Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Ruler of Abu Dhabi
Issued by us in Abu Dhabi
On: 14 December 2022
Corresponding to 20 Jumada Al-Awwal 1444 Hijri
7
Law No. (1) of 2023
Concerning the establishment of Abu Dhabi Transport
Company
“Public Joint Stock Company”
We, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler of Abu Dhabi,
Having reviewed:
• Law No. (1) of 1974 concerning the reorganisation of the Governmental
body in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and its amendments;
• Law No. (2) of 1971 concerning the National Advisory Council, and its
amendments;
• Law No. (2) of 2000 concerning the Civil Retirement Pensions and Benefits
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and its amendments;
• Law No. (19) of 2006 concerning the Regulation of Transportation via
Taxis in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and its amendments;
• Law No. (1) of 2017 concerning the Financial System of Abu Dhabi
Government, and its amendments;
• Law No. (7) of 2018 concerning the reorganisation of the Department of
Economic Development;
• Law No. (30) of 2019 concerning the establishment of the Department of
Municipalities and Transport;
• Law No. (24) of 2020 concerning the Supreme Council for Financial and
Economic Affairs;
• Federal Law by Decree No. (32) of 2021 concerning Commercial
Companies;
• Executive Council Resolution No. (21) of 2018 concerning the additional
competencies of the Department of Transport; and
• Based on what was proposed to and approved by the Executive Council,
Issued the following Law:
Article (1)
In the implementation of the provisions of this Law, the following terms
and expressions shall have the meanings corresponding thereto unless the
8
context requires otherwise:
:
Government: The Government of Abu Dhabi
:
Emirate The Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
:
Supreme The Supreme Council for Financial and Economic
Council Affairs.
:
Department The Department of Municipalities and Transport
:
Company The Abu Dhabi Transport Company “Public Joint Stock
Company”
:
Board of The Board of Directors of the Company.
Directors
:
Railways Passenger railways, or any other railway-based passenger
transport systems, which are specified by specific tracks in
urban and suburban areas within the Emirate, excluding the
Federal railway tracks.
:
Transport Systems, Software, networks, traffic signals, energy
Systems: systems, supporting infrastructure, optical fibres, as well
as all utilities, facilities, buildings, warehouses, stations,
passengers facilities, maintenance facilities, machines,
equipment, and the structures necessary for the operation of
Transportation Means.
:
Transportation Various transportation means dedicated for the transport of
Means: passengers, including all kinds of vehicles.
Article 2 - Establishment
• A company shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Law
under the name of “Abu Dhabi Transport Company, “Public Joint Stock
Company”, enjoying an independent legal personality and full legal
capacity to carry out its activities and achieve its objectives.
• An abbreviated name may be used for the Company by a resolution of the
Board of Directors.
• The name of the Company and its abbreviation may be changed according
to the procedures specified in its articles of association.
9
Article 3 - Main Office
The main office of the Company shall be located in Abu Dhabi City. The
Board of Directors may establish branches, offices and agencies in the State
and abroad.
Article 4 - Capital of the Company
• The capital of the Company shall be AED 100.000.000 (one hundred
million Emirati Dirhams) divided into shares of equal value and with a
nominal value of AED 1 per share.
• The Company's capital may be increased, decreased or restructured, as
deemed appropriate by a resolution of the Supreme Council.
• All the shares of the Company are wholly owned by the Government,
and no shares may be sold, disposed off, or offered in a public or private
offering, unless upon the prior approval of the Supreme Council.
Article 5 - Objectives of the Company
• The Company's objectives shall be the execution, operation, management
and development of Transport Systems, as well as the transportation
of passengers in urban and suburban areas in the Emirate, using
Transportation Means, in addition to any other objectives related to its
activities as specified in the Articles of Association of the Company.
• The Company - in order to achieve its objectives - shall undertake the
following operations and activities inside and outside the State, whether
by itself or through any companies which are wholly or partially owned
thereby or in partnership with third parties:
1. Acquire the assets deemed necessary for the achievement of the
objectives of the Company.
2. Coordinate with the Department to integrate the Company’s services
related to the transportation into other urban transportation networks.
3. Develop the Railways, as well as all the services and activities deemed
relevant and necessary thereto, provide comprehensive transportation
10
services and trips, and rent cars and buses in accordance with the
legislations in force.
4. Establish, invest, enter into partnership and contribute to commercial
and industrial companies and projects related to the objectives thereof.
5. Conclude investment, management, outsourcing and maintenance
contracts, or any other contracts concerning any of its properties or
assets.
6. Develop, own and register intellectual property rights, and take any
necessary procedures in accordance with the legislations in force.
7. Coordinate with the relevant governmental entities to obtain information
related to the objectives of the Company.
Article 6 - Articles of Association
The Company shall act according to the Articles of Association issued by the
Board of Directors.
Article (7) - Board of Directors
• The Company shall be managed by a Board of Directors which consists of
at least five members including the Chairman appointed by a resolution of
the Supreme Council.
• The term of the Board of Directors shall be three years to be automatically
renewed unless a resolution is issued on the reformation thereof.
• The Articles of Association of the Company shall stipulate the procedures
for convening the Board of Directors and how to vote on its decisions.
Article 8 - Powers of the Board of Directors
• The Board of Directors is the competent authority to set the general policy
and strategies of the Company, and follow up on their execution for the
achievement of its objectives, and may exercise all the competencies
and powers specified in this Law and the Articles of Association of the
Company, and shall particularly assume the following:
11
1. Lay down and approve the Articles of Association of the Company,
and the financial, administrative and operational regulations, including
the Human Resources Regulation and the regulations stipulating the
procedures of the bids, tenders and contracting of the Company.
2. Approve the budget, final accounts and financial statements of the
Company, for each fiscal year.
3. Approve the terms of the agreements of operation, maintenance,
development or management.
4. Approve the loan agreements and financial facilities following the
approval of the Supreme Council.
• The Board of Directors may delegate some of its powers or competencies
to any member thereof or to the committees which are formed thereby or
to any senior employee of the Company.
Article 9-Auditor
The Company shall appoint one or more certified auditors. The Articles of
Association of the Company shall specify the manner of their appointment
as well as their remuneration.
Article 10 - Term of the Company
The term of the Company is 100 years, starting from the date of its registration
in the Commercial Register, to be automatically renewed for similar periods
unless a resolution is issued by the Supreme Council on the dissolution of
the Company.
Article 11 - Fiscal Year of the Company
The fiscal year of the Company shall begin from the first of January and end
on the 31st of December of each year, with the exception of the first fiscal
year which shall begin from the date of registration of the Company in the
Commercial Register and end on the 31st of December of the following year.
12
Article 12-Repeal
Any provision contrary to the provisions of this Law shall be repealed.
Article 13-Publication and Enforcement
This Law shall be effective from the date of its issuance and published in the
Official Gazette.
Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Ruler of Abu Dhabi
Issued by us in Abu Dhabi
On: 3 January 2023
Corresponding to: 10 Jumada Al-Akher 1444 Hijri
13
Law No. (4) of 2023
Concerning The Establishment of Abu Dhabi Media
Office
We, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler of Abu Dhabi,
Having reviewed:
• Law No. (1) of 1974 concerning the reorganisation of the Governmental
body in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and its amendments;
• Law No. (2) of 2000 concerning the Civil Retirement Pensions and Benefits
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and its amendments;
• Law No. (13) of 2007 concerning the establishment of Abu Dhabi Media
Company, “Public Joint Stock Company”;
• Law No. (6) of 2016 concerning the Human Resources in the Emirate of
Abu Dhabi, and its amendments;
• Law No. (1) of 2017 concerning the Financial System of Abu Dhabi
Government, and its amendments;
• Law No. (18) of 2018 concerning the establishment of the Media Office
of Abu Dhabi Government;
• Law No. (18) of 2019 concerning Abu Dhabi Executive Office, and its
amendments;
• Law No. (7) of 2021 concerning the establishment of the Creative Media
Authority;
• Law No. (7) of 2022 concerning the transfer of the Media Office of Abu
Dhabi Government and Abu Dhabi Media Company;
• Law No. (8) of 2022 concerning the Media Zone Authority- Abu Dhabi; and
• Based on what was proposed to and approved by the Executive Council,
Issued the following Law:
Article (1)
In the implementation of the provisions of this Law, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings corresponding thereto unless the context
requires otherwise:
14
:
Emirate The Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
:
Government: The Government of Abu Dhabi
:
Executive Council The Executive Council of the Emirate.
:
Governmental The departments, public entities, and institutions,
Entities as well as the agencies, centres, councils, funds and
any other entity affiliated to the Government.
:
Governmental Companies which are wholly owned by the
Companies Government or by Governmental Entities.
:
Office: Abu Dhabi Media Office
:
Chairman: Chairman of the Office.
:
Director-General: The Director-General of the Office.
Article (2)
• Pursuant to the provisions of this Law, an authority named “Abu Dhabi
Media Office” shall be established. It shall enjoy an independent legal
personality and full legal capacity to act, and shall report to the Chairman
of the Executive Council.
• The Office shall replace the Media Office of Abu Dhabi Government. All its
assets, properties, rights and obligations shall be transferred to the Office,
and shall be deemed as its legal successor.
• The employees of the Media Office of Abu Dhabi Government shall be
transferred to the Office without prejudice to their financial and retirement
rights.
Article (3)
• The affiliation of the Creative Media Authority established by the aforesaid
Law No. (7) of 2021 shall be transferred to the Office.
• The ownership of Abu Dhabi Media Company established by the aforesaid
Law No. (13) of 2007 shall be transferred to the Office.
Article (4)
• The phrase “Department of Culture and Tourism” shall be replaced by the
phrase “Abu Dhabi Media Office” and the word “Department” shall be
15
replaced by the word “Office” wherever they appear in the aforesaid Law
No. (7) of 2021.
• Article (4/1) and Article (6/11) of the aforesaid Law No. (7) of 2021 shall
be replaced by the following:
Article (4/1):
“Proposing the policies and strategic plans for the Authority and submitting
them to the Office in preparation for their approval by the Chairman of the
Office upon the approval of the Chairman of the Executive Council.”
Article (6/11):
“Proposing the fees, tariffs, and prices related to the Authority’s
competencies, and submitting them to the Chairman of the Office for
approval upon the approval of the Chairman of the Executive Council.”
Article (5)
The main headquarters of the Office shall be located in Abu Dhabi City.
Branches of the Office may be established inside or outside the Emirate by
a resolution of the Chairman.
Article (6)
The Office shall assume the following competencies:
1. Prepare the policy and strategic plans for media and government
communication in the Emirate, have them approved by the Chairman of
the Executive Council, and supervise their implementation.
2. Organise, authorise, supervise and control media production and
interactive media activities in the Emirate, including free zones.
3. Follow up and supervise the media and its activities in the Emirate in
accordance with the relevant legislations, agreements and treaties in
force both locally and globally, and in coordination with the relevant
entities in the State and abroad.
4. Regulate media and governmental communication for governmental
entities and companies in the Emirate in all respects by laying down
policies, standards, regulations, resolutions, as well as executive and
operational circulars governing the same and monitor the compliance
with them.
16
5. Approve media plans for governmental entities and companies in line
with the media and governmental communication policy of the Emirate.
6. Organise and standardise media discourse, media powers, and requests
for media sponsorship in the Emirate.
7. Represent the Emirate and the Government in the media, prepare and
organise press conferences for the Emirate and the Government and
their strategic messaging.
8. Conduct research and studies related to the media sector and establish
strategic partnerships with local, regional and international media
institutions to stimulate and develop the media sector in the Emirate.
9. Prepare, develop and implement media plans related to the activities
and interviews of the Ruler of the Emirate, his Crown Prince and all
representatives, entities, committees and delegations that operate
under their authority, and follow up on the media aspects accompanying
them in coordination with the concerned entities.
10. Arrange for the dialogues and meetings that are led by the Chairman
of the Executive Council and Government officials with various local
and foreign media, follow up on broadcasting and publishing them, and
monitor their effects on public opinion, in coordination with the relevant
entities.
11. Provide various media outlets with news related to the Executive Council
and its committees, Governmental Entities and Companies, in addition
to media coverage of their activities.
12. Follow up and monitor various types of local and international media
content and public opinion trends.
13. Undertake all actions necessary to maintain and improve the standing
and reputation of the Emirate.
14. Lay down necessary guidelines for the appropriate use of the Emirate's
logo, as well as its governmental and promotional identity, to safeguard
and promote their image, submit the aforesaid guidelines to the Executive
Council for approval, monitor their implementation, and provide relevant
services and initiatives.
15. Save, document and archive all forms of media content related to the
Emirate, including dialogues and interviews, related to Governmental
17
Entities and Companies, conducted on various platforms such as press,
television, and radio.
16. Develop programmes to enhance the proficiency and expertise of media
communication teams within Governmental Entities and Companies,
in coordination with the relevant entities, and law down appropriate
policies and guidelines necessary to facilitate such programmes.
17. Lay down a media policy for times of emergency, crisis, and disasters
in the Emirate in coordination with the relevant entities, submit it to the
Executive Council for approval, and monitor its implementation.
18. Standardise the messages conveyed through media campaigns and
strategic events organised by the Emirate and the Government, approve
relevant media plans, and oversee their activation at both domestic and
global levels in coordination with the relevant entities.
19. Establish companies or contribute thereto in accordance with the
legislations in force.
Article (7)
• The Office shall be headed by a Chairman, holding the rank of a department
chairman, who shall be appointed by virtue of an Amiri Decree, and shall
assume the following competencies:
1. Supervise and oversee all the activities and tasks carried out by the
Office.
2. Oversee the performance of the Director-General.
3. Approve the strategic and operational plans of the Office and submit
them for approval in accordance with the applicable legislations.
4. Approve the initiatives, programmes, projects, studies and
recommendations that are related to the operations and activities of the
Office.
5. Issue the rules and regulations related to the competencies of the Office
and the entities affiliated to the Office, upon the approval of the Chairman
of the Executive Council.
6. Issue the policies, resolutions and circulars related to the competences
of the Office and the entities affiliated to the Office.
7. Approve the draft annual budget of the Office and submit it for approval
18
by the Chairman of the Executive Council or his delegate.
8. Issue the organisational structure of the Office upon the approval of the
Chairman of the Executive Council.
• The Chairman may delegate some of his competencies to the senior staff
of the Office.
Article (8)
• The Office shall have a Director-general, holding the rank of an under-
secretary of department, who shall be appointed by a decision of the
Chairman of the Executive Council. He shall undertake the responsibility
of managing and supervising the work of the Office, and may in particular
assume the following competencies:
1. Propose strategic and operational plans for the Office and submit them
to the Chairman.
2. Follow up on the implementation of the Office's strategic and operational
plans, and the programmes and projects that it manages or implements.
3. Manage, develop and implement all the strategic and executive tasks
assigned to the Office, either directly or through work teams appointed
by him or entrusted by the latter to carry out certain tasks, in a manner
that does not conflict with the legislations in force.
4. Propose the initiatives, programmes, projects, studies and
recommendations that are related to the functions and activities of the
Office and submit them to the Chairman.
5. Propose the draft annual budget for the Office and submit it to the
Chairman.
6. Propose the organisational structure of the Office and submit it to the
Chairman.
7. Appoint experts, consultants and technicians on a temporary or
permanent basis and specify their fees. He may seek the assistance of
experts, institutions and consulting offices as he sees fit.
8. Open bank accounts in the name of the Office.
9. Form internal committees and work teams from among the Office's
employees and from outside, and outline their duties and work flow
procedures.
19
10. Propose organisational and executive regulations, as well as the
systems, policies, resolutions and circulars related to the competencies
of the Office, and submit them to the Chairman.
11. Represent the Office before the judiciary and third parties.
12. Any other competencies or tasks entrusted to him by the Chairman.
• The Director-General may delegate some of his competencies to any of
the Office's senior employees, provided that such delegation is in writing.
Article (9)
All Governmental Entities and Companies shall undertake to provide the
Office with all its requirements including information, documents and data
related to its competences.
Article (10)
The Office's financial resources shall consist of the following:
1. The annual appropriations allocated to it by the government.
2. Any other revenues approved by the Chairman.
Article (11)
The fiscal year of the Office shall begin at the first of January and end on
December 31st each year, with the exception of the first fiscal year which
shall begin as of the effective date of this Law and end on December 31st
of the next year.
Article (12)
• The Office shall be subject to the financial laws and regulations in force in
the Emirate.
• Where no special provisions are laid down in the human resources
regulations applicable at the Office which shall be issued by a resolution of
the Chairman upon the approval of the Chairman of the Executive Council,
the Office's employees shall be subject to the human resources laws and
regulations, in force in the Emirate.
• The Civil Retirement Pensions and Benefits Law in force in the Emirate
shall apply to national employees.
20
Article (13)
• The policies, bylaws, and regulations in force at the Media Office of the
Government of Abu Dhabi shall remain applicable in a manner that does
not contradict this Law, until the issuance of the policies, bylaws, and
regulations executing the provisions of this Law.
• The aforesaid Law No. (18) of 2018 and Law No. (7) of 2022, shall be
repealed.
• Any provision contrary to the provisions of this Law shall be repealed.
Article (14)
This Law shall be effective from the date of its issuance and published in the
Official Gazette.
Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Ruler of Abu Dhabi
Issued by us in Abu Dhabi
On: 11 January 2023
Corresponding to: 18 Jumada Al-Al Akher- 1444 Hijri
21

Decrees
23
seerceD

Amiri Decree No. (3) of 2023
Concerning Some Members of the Executive Council
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
We, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler of Abu Dhabi,
Having reviewed:
• Law No. (1) of 1974 concerning the reorganisation of the Governmental
body in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and its amendments;
• Amiri Decree No. (1) of 2019 concerning the reformation of the Executive
Council of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and its amendments; and
• Based on what was proposed by the Chairman of the Executive Council,
Issued the following Decree:
Article (1)
His Excellency Mohammed Ali Mohammed Al-Shorafa Al-Hammadi,
Member of the Executive Council, shall be appointed as the Chairman of the
Department of Municipalities and Transport, in place of His Excellency Falah
Mohammed Al-Ahbabi.
Article (2)
His Excellency Ahmed Jassim Youssef Nasser Al Zaabi, shall be appointed as
Member of the Executive Council, Chairman of the Department of Economic
Development.
Article (3)
His Excellency Mansour Ibrahim Ahmed Saeed Al Mansoori, shall be
appointed as Member of the Executive Council, Chairman of the Department
of Health, in place of His Excellency Sheikh Abdullah bin Mohammed Al
Hamed.
25
Article (4)
His Excellency "Ahmed Tamim" Hisham Ibrahim Abdul Hameed Al-Kitab,
shall be appointed as Member of the Executive Council, Chairman of the
Department of Government Support, in place of His Excellency / Ali Rashid
Qannas Al-Ketbi.
Article (5)
This Decree shall be effective from the date of its issuance and published
in the Official Gazette.
Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Ruler of Abu Dhabi
Issued by us in Abu Dhabi
On: 24 January 2023
Corresponding to: 2 Rajab 1444 Hijri
26
Executive Council
Resolutions
27
snoituloseR
licnuoC
evitucexE

Executive Council Resolution No. (169) of 2022
Concerning the Thirty-First Investment Zone in the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi
The Executive Council has decided the following:
1. The approval of the conversion of the lands whose dimensions are specified
in the Attachment of this Resolution into the thirty-first investment zone in
the Emirate of Abu Dhabi within Ta’ziz Industrial Complex.
2. Instruct the Department of Municipalities and Transport to take the
necessary procedures according to the approved rules.
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 06 December 2022
Corresponding to: 12 Jumada Al Owla 1444 Hijri
29
30
31
32
33
Executive Council Resolution No. (182) of 2022
Concerning the General Policy for the Management,
Regulation and Protection of Groundwater in the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi
The Executive Council has decided the following:
The General Policy for the Management, Regulation and Protection of
Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi shall be approved in accordance
with the (attached form).
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 13 December 2022
Corresponding to: 19 Jumada Al Owla 1444 Hijri
34
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3) General Policy for the Management, Regulation and
Protection of Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
Environment Agency - Abu Dhabi.
2022.
1. Introduction
This Policy reviews the existing state of One of the major challenges facing groundwater
groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and is the depletion of the reservoir as that the
the challenges and implications of its depletion. extraction rates exceed the natural recharge
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
35
(cid:3)
It also defines its underlying principles and the rates. This depletion caused a decrease in
relevant legal framework. groundwater levels and a deterioration of its
quality in many areas, where 79% of it has
Groundwater is one of the main natural
become highly saline,18% medium brackish
resources, and the ratio of the total use of
water, while only 3% of it is considered fresh
freshwater (which includes both surface water
water.
and fossil groundwater) out of the total
renewable water resources available is one of the The deterioration of groundwater quality affects
indicators by which water scarcity is measured, its use, especially in the agricultural sector, which
taking into account that the results are equalised plays an important role in achieving food security
through a weight that is determined to reflect and stimulating related economic activities. It also
the use of desalinated water and treated has economic consequences manifested in
wastewater. resorting to other water sources such as
desalinated water and recycled water that
In this context, although the water scarcity index
requires investments for transportation and
in the Emirate is one of the lowest in the world,
distribution. In addition, the increase of
the Emirate records one of the highest rates of
groundwater salinity leads to the need to
per capita water consumption.
maintain and replace irrigation networks, which
increases costs for farmers.
Most groundwater resources are surface
aquifers, which are the most common reservoirs
From the environmental point of view, the
in terms of use and productivity. Most of the
deterioration of the quality of groundwater and
groundwater reservoirs in the Emirate are non-
its lower levels causes the agricultural sector to
renewable.
depend on small desalination plants, which in turn
cause various environmental impacts, such as
Groundwater constitutes 60% of the total water
high greenhouse gas emissions.
resources consumed in the Emirate and is mainly
used to irrigate crops in the agricultural sector
In response to the foregoing, the Emirate of Abu
and to a lesser extent to irrigate crops in forests
Dhabi adopts, through this Policy, the necessary
and parks.
measures to ensure the integrated and effective
use of the various water resources, through
The Policy is drawn up in implementation of the
sustainable management, as well as through the
provisions of Law No. (5) of 2016 concerning the
regulation, management and monitoring of
Regulation of Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu
Dhabi.(cid:3) groundwater.
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
36
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
2. Scope of Application
This Policy is implemented in the Emirate of Abu well as through analysing the economic, social,
Dhabi, and is supervised by the Environment environmental, technical, health and
Agency - Abu Dhabi, through consultation, organisational impacts, based on systematic and
coordination and cooperation with the concerned organised procedures that contribute to achieving
entities, whether within the governmental or the the objectives sought.(cid:3)
private sector, (cid:3)
3. Main Principles Underlying the Policy
This Policy is based on several main principles related to groundwater issues:
The Issue Main Principles
Groundwater Encourage consumers to use alternative water sources for groundwater such
alternatives as recycled water; taking into account economic, environmental, technical,
organisational, social and health considerations.
Conservation Ensure that all current and future users maintain and rationalise groundwater
and efficient use use as efficiently as possible, using Water Demand Management policies.
of groundwater
Allocate lands for agricultural purposes only in non-restricted areas with long-
Allocation of
term sustainable water resources.
agricultural
lands
Economic value Educate consumers about the economic value of groundwater and the
of groundwater importance of preserving it and rationalising its use.
Research and Direct research and development as a base for future foreseeing and
development promoting innovative technical solutions in terms of optimal use and
preservation of groundwater.
Emergencies Groundwater is used in emergencies as an alternative source of water in such
cases.
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
37
(cid:3)
4. Legal Framework
Article (3) of Law No. (5) of 2016 “Draw up the General Policy related to the
management, regulation and protection of
concerning the regulation of Groundwater
groundwater, in coordination with the entity
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi stipulates
concerned with energy in the Emirate, and submit
that the Environment Agency - Abu
it to the Executive Council for approval.”
Dhabi shall have the competence to:
5. Analysis
The existing state of groundwater in the • Groundwater extraction rates in
Emirate of Abu Dhabi the Emirate are about 24 times the
rates of natural recharge.
The existing state of groundwater in the Emirate
• The state of the groundwater is
of Abu Dhabi can be summarised as follows:
constantly deteriorating as the
• Groundwater constitutes 60% of levels of deterioration in some
the total water consumed in the areas have led to their
Emirate (Groundwater Atlas of classification as restricted areas.
Abu Dhabi Emirate, 2018). • The increasing demand for
• Groundwater is mainly used to groundwater requires joint or
irrigate crops in the agricultural coordinated initiatives with various
sector and to a lesser extent to stakeholders and actors involved.
irrigate crops in forests and parks.
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
38
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)
Groundwater resources in the Emirate of
Abu Dhabi the food sufficiency rate, greening the desert, and
expanding parks and gardens also contributed to
Surface aquifers are the most common an increase of demand for irrigation water,
reservoirs in terms of use and productivity, despite the existing effort among the concerned
and most groundwater reservoirs in the entities on the importance and necessity of
Emirate are non-renewable reservoirs. preserving groundwater and the shift in policies
Because of the excessive pumping of water and legislation to focus on groundwater
from these reservoirs, groundwater levels preservation. The low rate of water renewal, the
decreased and groundwater quality lack of efficient irrigation techniques and the
deteriorated in many areas, as 79% of it selection of crop quality contribute to increasing
became highly saline water, 18% medium pressures, and cause excessive consumption of
brackish water, while only 3% of it is groundwater in the Emirate, as the demand for
considered fresh water, according to the groundwater has reached unsustainable levels,
classification of water quality depending on leading to its depletion and to the deterioration
salinity, which was developed by the of its quality. The results of the Groundwater Well
Environment Agency - Abu Dhabi. Inventory project in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
indicate that the use of groundwater in the
Pressures
Emirate reached 2,100 million cubic meters in
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
39
(cid:3)
Irrigation of crops and irrigation of forests 2017. (Groundwater Atlas of Abu Dhabi Emirate,
increases the demand for groundwater. The 2018).(cid:3)
number of agricultural holdings in Abu Dhabi
increased by 38 times during the period from
1971 to 2019. The policies of expanding the
agricultural sector, striving to achieve food
security, raising(cid:3)
Water Stress Index in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates and a number of other
countries
International reports show that the United Arab Emirates ranked tenth in the world in the list of
countries with the highest levels of Water Stress, which is an indicator that measures the
withdrawal of fresh water as a percentage of the fresh water resources available.
According to the World Resources Institute, the level of Water Stress in the State reached 4.26, while the
a verage for the Emirate of Abu Dhabi was slightly higher, as it reached 4.44 in 2019.
State(cid:3)
global ranking(cid:3) Water Stress Index and comparison with a
number of countries in the region and the
United States(cid:3) world
Denmark(cid:3) (Freshwater withdrawal as a percentage of
freshwater resources available) *
Germany(cid:3)
4.44- i s2 t0he1 r9a t-e for the
Egypt(cid:3) Emirate of Abu Dhabi(cid:3)
UAE(cid:3)
Saudi Arabia(cid:3)
K uwait(cid:3)
Water Stress Level(cid:3)
* World
In comparison with countries in the region, the rate of water withdrawal in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi is 24
tRimeseosu trhcees r Iantset iotuf tnea, t2u0r1a9l r(eAcqhuaardguec, tw phroiljee ctth)e - rWataet einr Stthree sKs iInngddeoxm of Saudi Arabia is 6 times higher, and 2.5
times in the Sultanate of Oman (National Water Strategy 2030, Saudi Arabia, 2018 and the Report on the
State of Groundwater in the Sultanate of Oman 2019).
Classificati(cid:3)on: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
40
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)
Economic and social effects
from around 22 thousand dunams to around
The increase in the demand for groundwater 750 thousand dunams during the same period.
results in a deterioration of its quality which
Agriculture currently contributes to less than
affects its use, especially in the agricultural
1% of the Emirate's GDP. The government
sector. Preserving groundwater contributes to
provides an integrated support system for the
sustainable agricultural development, and
agricultural sector, such as vital security
thus to an increase in gross domestic product.
programmes that include the Palm Pest
Agriculture plays a crucial role in achieving Control Programme, the Invasive Insects and
food security and stimulating other related Pest Control Programme, and technical
economic activities. During the past decades, programmes such as agricultural extension
the number of agricultural holdings has and training of farm workers to raise their
increased 38 times, from 634 holdings in 1971 efficiency and enhance their expertise. In
to 24,018 holdings in 2019, while the area of this context, the Abu Dhabi Authority for
agricultural lands has increased 33 times (cid:3) Agriculture and Food Safety provided during
the first quarter of the year 2020 more than
(cid:3)
AED 271.4 million to farmers benefiting from
the Programme to Improve Farmers’ Incomes (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
41
(cid:3)
implemented by the Authority, and more Expected results of applying the Policy on the
than 13 thousand farmers have economic and social levels
benefited from it since the year 2000.
.1
Agricultural support policies have
2. The use of alternative water will lead to the continuation
witnessed a change from focusing on
of agricultural activities in areas where the quantity and
production quantities to maintaining the
quality of groundwater is deteriorating.
quality of farms and encouraging self-
3. A shift will be made to higher economic value crops with
sufficiency for their owners.
efficient water consumption, which will lead to an
Due to the deterioration of groundwater expected gradual improvement in the value of
quality, alternatives of desalinated water agricultural products.
and treated wastewater that require 4. The development of programmes and services for the
capital and operational investments for agricultural sector will lead to a better alignment with
transportation and distribution are the needs of farmers in the context of water use
(cid:3)
currently being resorted to. The salinity efficiency.
(cid:3)
of groundwater also affects the
irrigation networks and the need to
rehabilitate and replace them over short (cid:3)
periods of time. (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Groundwater depletion affects the
(cid:3)
abundance of groundwater reserves, (cid:3)
which are considered strategic reserves (cid:3)
(cid:3)
for future generations. This will have
(cid:3)
negative effects on agricultural (cid:3)
(cid:3)
products, thus affecting the income and
(cid:3)
returns of farmers and farm owners. It (cid:3)
also leads to the need to provide (cid:3)
(cid:3)
alternatives of fresh water as a strategic
(cid:3)
reserve. (cid:3)
(cid:3)
In addition, the extraction and use of
its quality and to lower agricultural production.
groundwater takes place without placing
Because of the lack of alternatives, reliance is
any direct cost on the users, as the Study
placed on small desalination plants in farms, which
on the Economic Assessment of
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
42
(cid:3)
Groundwater in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, lead to negative environmental effects on the
conducted by the Environment Agency - ecosystem in general, such as the discharge of
Abu Dhabi, indicates that the estimated waste water from desalination plants into unsealed
economic value of each cubic meter of ponds, which leads to groundwater and soil
groundwater ranges between AED 7.7 pollution, in addition to the high carbon dioxide
and AED 9, and the economic value is the emissions from the water desalination process,
estimated total groundwater in Abu which exacerbates the phenomenon of climate
Dhabi ranges between AED 15.5 and AED change. Given the dependence of the forest sector
18 billion annually. on groundwater for irrigation, there are
environmental impacts on biodiversity (plants and
animals) as a result of the deterioration of the
quality and quantity of groundwater used in this
Environmental effects
sector.
The decrease of usable groundwater reserves
leads to its depletion and to deterioration of
its quality. This results in the accumulation
of salinity in the surface agricultural soil, the The methods of disposing of the return water
deterioration of(cid:3) resulting from the desalination of groundwater in
farms and the use of pesticides and fertilisers also
affect the quality of groundwater and soil.
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)
Expected results of applying the Policy on the environmental level
The Policy is expected to achieve positive environmental impacts as follows:
1. Decrease of groundwater extraction by 650 million cubic meters by 2030.
2. Improvement of the groundwater quality index (locally and federally).
3. Decrease of the rate of water extraction versus the rate of recharge from 24 to 16 times by 2030.
4. The use of recycled water will enhance the recharge of the aquifer in the areas that are used for irrigation
(in terms of quality and quantity).
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
43
(cid:3)
6. Policy Objectives
The General Policy for the Management, 1. Ensure the optimal use of groundwater
Regulation and Protection of groundwater in and limit its wastage;
the Emirate of Abu Dhabi aims to ensure the
2. Ensure that a comprehensive
sustainability of groundwater reserves that
knowledge of groundwater resources is
are suitable for use in the future to secure
achieved;
water supplies and promote sustainability in
3. Promote the use of good irrigation
water uses, and work to reach this end
techniques, methods and practices that
through the following objectives:
reduce groundwater consumption.(cid:3)
7. Implementation
(cid:3)
The Policy is implemented through a set of
regulatory and non-regulatory tools linked to
each of the objectives set. The Environment
Agency - Abu Dhabi, in coordination with the
Department of Energy and Abu Dhabi
Authority for Agriculture and Food Safety,
and in consultation with the authorities
concerned with groundwater in the Emirate,
determines the ways to include these tools in
its various plans. There is a list of these tools
that have been agreed upon by the concerned
entities to implement in order to achieve the
Policy objectives. Each entity will be
responsible for implementing the agreed-
upon tools in accordance with the
mechanisms it has in place.
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Classification: Confidential (cid:3)
©SADER(cid:3)
(cid:3)
44
Executive Council Resolution No. (183) of 2022
Concerning the Amendment of Some Provisions of
Chairman of the Executive Council Resolution No. (25)
of 2006 Concerning the Issuance of the Executive
Regulation of Law No. (23) Of 2005 Concerning
Health Insurance in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
Having reviewed Chairman of the Executive Council Resolution No. (17) of
2017 concerning the exemption of some services from applying the Health
Insurance Scheme in the Emirate.
The Executive Council has decided the following:
Article (6) of Chairman of the Executive Council Resolution No. (25) of 2006
concerning the Executive Regulation of Law No. (23) of 2005 concerning
Health Insurance in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi shall be replaced with the
following:
1. Treatment services shall be provided by virtue of the Health Insurance
Policies, which include basic medical treatment services covered by the
Basic Health Insurance Policy, or medical treatment services covered by
the Flexible Health Insurance Policy, and any other medical treatment
services agreed to be added from among the excluded medical treatment
services.
2. Health Insurance Policies shall be divided into several types as follows:
a. Flexible Health Insurance Policy with the following categories of
beneficiaries:
Expatriates, residing in the Emirate, who work in the private sector
with a monthly income not exceeding AED 5000.
Desiring investors and holders of self-employment licences, their
families and their employees.
Families of the resident expatriates and their workers who are not
covered by health insurance by the employer (governmental or
private).
45
The Flexible Health Insurance Policy shall be deemed a document
of contractual nature, and its conclusion shall not result in the
obtainment, by the accredited health insurance company that issues
this type of Policy, of any governmental support in relation to this
Policy, and its beneficiaries shall not be entitled to register for any
type of treatment program funded by the Emirate.
In the event that the annual coverage limit of this Policy is exhausted,
the subscriber to the health insurance shall agree with the accredited
health insurance company issuing the Policy to extend the treatment
coverage of the insured until the end of the period specified in the
Policy and pay the relevant insurance premium due, or provide
another Health Insurance Policy for the insured in accordance with
the provisions of this Resolution.
The insurance premium for the Flexible Health Insurance Policy shall
be an amount of AED 750 - seven hundred and fifty dirhams - annually
per person.
Schedule No. (6) attached to this Resolution specifies the medical
treatment services covered by the Flexible Health Insurance Policy.
b: Basic Health Insurance Policy with the following categories of
beneficiaries:
Low-income people, as well as their families and workers who receive
overall salaries as follows:
AED 4,000 per month with housing, or
AED 5,000 per month without housing.
The families of the resident expatriates and their workers who are
not covered by health insurance by the employer and who are not
beneficiaries of the Flexible Health Insurance Policy.
Domestic workers of nationals in accordance with the relevant
provisions governing them.
Non-citizens who are in need and critical humanitarian cases,
provided that the Department of Health prescribed the necessary
controls in this respect.
46
The value of the premium for the Basic Health Insurance Policy shall
be specified by an Executive Council Resolution.
c. The Health Insurance Policy for Emergencies, with following categories
of beneficiaries:
• Those coming to the Emirate on a visit visa.
• Children who are not permanent residents in the State, provided
that a notarised document is presented stating that their residence
is covered by the father or the mother.
• This Policy shall cover the medical treatment services for emergency
cases only, and its value shall be determined according to the
duration of the visit or residence within the State, according to the
market rate.
d. The Enhanced Health insurance Policy which is available to the
remaining categories of beneficiaries.
3. Other medical treatment services may be added to the basic medical
treatment services listed in Schedule No. (1) or the medical treatment
services covered by the Flexible Health Insurance Policy listed in
Schedule No. (6), provided that these services, the premium and
the annual insurance coverage for them are agreed upon among the
accredited health insurance companies and other parties to the Policy.
4. The term of the Health Insurance Policy shall be one or more Gregorian
years, and it shall not be permissible to recover any part of the value
of the Basic Health Insurance Policy after its conclusion. As for other
health insurance policies, an agreement shall be made among the
accredited health insurance companies and the other parties to these
policies on the cases, conditions and procedures of recovery of part of
the aforesaid policies.
5. The Health Insurance Policy shall include the following data:
• The medical treatment services covered by the Basic Health Insurance
Policy as stated in Schedule No. (1) or the health insurance services
covered by the Flexible Health Insurance Policy as stated in Schedule
No. (6) attached to this Resolution.
47
• Medical treatment services excluded as set out in Schedule No. (2).
• Medical treatment services that are agreed to be added from among
the excluded medical treatment services to the medical treatment
services covered by the Basic Health Insurance Policy or the Flexible
Health Insurance Policy.
• The amount or percentage of the deductible that the insured shall pay
when requesting medical examination or treatment covered by the
Health Insurance Policy, medicines or medical examinations.
• The maximum value of medical treatment services borne by the
accredited health insurance company under the Health Insurance Policy.
• List of excluded medical treatment services.
• Complaint examination and dispute resolution methods.
6. The Health Insurance Policy shall include a statement of the exemptions
granted in the field of basic medical treatment services, with a stipulation
stating that the value of the policy shall be reduced by an amount
equivalent to these prescribed exemptions.
7. The provisions of the Health Insurance Policy shall be written in Arabic
with a translation into English, and the Arabic provisions shall prevail in
case any dispute arises.
8. It shall not be permissible to treat major diseases with high costs from
which the insured coming to reside or work for the first time in the
Emirate suffers, if the insured does not hold a valid health card, under
the Flexible or Basic Health Insurance Policy, except after six months
from the date of entry into force of the Policy, and the Department of
Health shall specify the type of these diseases.
9. It shall not be permissible to obtain the Flexible Health Insurance Policy
concurrently with other health insurance policies referred to in this
resolution.
10. The approved health insurance companies shall provide the insured
persons with cards containing the details of the Health Insurance Policy.
11. The approved health insurance company shall issue a notice of renewal
of the insurance policy 30 days before its expiry date, provided that the
48
notice includes the value of the premium, the annual coverage amount,
and any changes in the renewed policy.
12. Health fitness for work or residence shall be proved before subscribing
to the health insurance plan.”
• Schedule No. (6) attached to this Resolution shall be added to the
aforesaid Chairman of the Executive Council Resolution No. (25) of
2006.
• This Resolution shall be effective from 01/01/2023.
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 22 December 2022
Corresponding to: 28 Jumada AL Owla 1444 Hijri
49
Schedule No. (6)
Flexible Health Insurance Benefits
List of Benefits
The Maximum Annual Ceiling
for the Treatment Services per AED 150,000
person
Coverage Area (elective Within the borders of the Emirate
treatment) of Abu Dhabi
Coverage Area (emergency The State of the United Arab
cases) Emirates
Network of Healthcare Providers Network of Healthcare Providers
(outpatient treatment shall be
limited to clinics)
Inpatient care services for major The coverage shall be subject to
high-cost diseases, according a waiting period of 6 months from
to the list of the Department of the beginning of the first health
Health insurance policy with the contracted
company, and the subscriber to the
health insurance shall be responsible,
on behalf of the insured, for the
coverage of these costs during this
period.
For medical treatment services in accredited hospitals, the coverage
reaches the maximum annual ceiling for treatment services per
individual/per policy with prior approval.
Procedures of transfer to Transfer procedures:
specialised clinics in hospitals The insured shall not incur any
costs for advice or consultation
provided by specialists or
consultants in hospitals if the
transfer by a network GP (or
equivalent as determined by the
Department of Health) who is
licensed by the Department of
Health or any other competent
authority in the UAE, is payable by
the insurance company.
The GP shall transfer the insured,
provided that the reasons are
mentioned, via the electronic
system in order for the claim to
be considered by the insurance
company.
50
Coverage approval requirements • Non-emergency medical conditions
(elective) - prior approval is
mandatory.
• Emergency medical services –
notifying the insurance company
within 24 hours of admission to
the hospital covered under the
insurance network.
The rate of deductibles by the • %20 to be paid by the insured, up
insured to a maximum of AED 500 to be
paid for every new service.
• An annual total ceiling for the
deductible rate equal to AED 1000.
• In case of exceeding the ceilings,
the insurance company shall cover
%100 of the treatment cost.
Type of stay • Providing in-hospital treatment
services in rooms with two or more
beds.
Hospital stay and related
Covered
services
Intensive care unit and
treatment of coronary artery Covered
disease
Fees for consultants, surgeons,
Covered
and anaesthesiologists
Various treatments including
physiotherapy, chemotherapy, Covered
radiotherapy, etc.
Use of medical devices and
equipment (eg heart-lung Covered
support systems, etc.)
Land transportation services in
the State, provided by a licensed
Covered
entity for medical emergencies
(Ground ambulance services)
51
Stay of a companion (to
Covered up to a maximum of AED
accompany an insured child up
100 per night
to the age of 16 years)
Cost of accommodation for the
companion of a patient staying
in the same room in cases of
medical necessity based on the Covered up to a maximum of AED
recommendation of the treating 100 per night
physician, and following the
prior approval of the insurance
company providing coverage.
Outpatient Treatment
(Basic health services: At licensed out-patient clinics)
• Primary care/first line of care Transfer procedures
within the network of health • The Insured will not incur any
service providers costs for advice or consultations
• General Practitioner (GP) or provided by specialists or
Network Gatekeeper only consultants in out-patient clinics if
the transfer is made by a network
general medical practitioner (or
equivalent as determined by the
Department of Health) who is
licensed by the Department of
Health or any other competent
authority in the UAE, payable by
the insurance company.
• The general medical practitioner
shall transfer the insured, while
stating the reasons, via the
electronic system, in order for the
insurance company to consider
the claim.
Examination, diagnosis and %20 deductible rate to be paid by
treatment services by certified the insured per visit
practitioners, specialists and Not applicable in case of a follow-up
consultants visit within seven days
52
Laboratory testing and %20 deductible rate to be paid by
radiological diagnostic services the insured per visit.
In non-emergency medical cases,
prior approval is required for
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
CT scan, and endoscopy.
Medicines and drugs %30 deductible to be paid by the
insured per prescription
The value of medicines and drugs
is covered up to a maximum of
AED 1500 annually (including the
deductible percentage).
*The deductible shall only apply to
products included in medical-health
prescriptions where available.
New-born vaccinations and • Basic vaccinations and
immunisations immunisations for newborns
and children as stipulated in the
policies of the Ministry of Health
and their updates.
• Claims shall be covered
on reimbursement basis
(reimbursement of accrued
expenses) as per the coverage
determined in the Section of
the “Medical Claims Settlement
Requirements” in this Document.
Physiotherapy (requires prior %20 deductible rate to be paid by
approval) the insured per session.
Covered up to 6 sessions per
member annually.
53
Other Additional Services
One-day treatment Covered
Outpatient surgery Covered
• Covered for the first 30 days
after the date of birth of a new-
born baby with the mother's
annual benefits up to the
maximum limit of the mother's
New-born coverage policy - /AED 150,000.
• Covered for the tests of bacille
Calmette-Guerin (BCG) and
Hepatitis B, as well as new-born
check-ups up to 30 days from the
date of birth.
• Covered only in medical
Diagnostic and treatment
emergencies, subject to a %20
services for the treatment of
deductible rate to be paid by the
teeth and gums
insured.
• Covered only in medical
Hearing and optical aids, and
emergencies, subject to a %20
vision correction through
deductible rate to be paid by the
surgeries and laser.
insured.
54
Pregnancy and Childbirth Services
Pregnancy Prenatal services Prior approval • %10 deductible
and Childbirth in outpatient from the health to be paid by the
Services clinics insurance insured woman.
company is • 8 visits to
*Should any required primary health
situation care centres,
develop including
into an check-ups,
emergency, examinations
necessary and tests,
medical according to
expenses will prenatal care
be covered up protocols.
to the annual • All types of care
total limit provided by an
obstetrician in
low-risk primary
care or an
obstetrician for
high-risk cases.
In-hospital Requires prior • %10 deductible
pregnancy approval from the rate to be paid
and childbirth health insurance by the insured
services company, or woman.
notification • AED 7000 for a
within 24 hours normal delivery,
of emergency or AED 10000
treatment. for a medically
necessary
caesarean
delivery
(C-section),
complications
and necessary
medical
termination of
pregnancy.
New-born • Covered for the
coverage first 30 days
from birth.
55
Medical Claims Settlement Requirements (amounts paid by the
insurance company)
Within the
Free or cashless
network of %100 of actual
access (the
healthcare costs covered
Network)
providers
%80 of the
actual cost
In the UAE covered is
governmental subject to
hospitals up to %100
of applicable
Elective Reimbursement network rates.
treatment of expenses In the UAE,
owed (outside except for
Not covered
the network government
of healthcare hospitals
providers).
%100 of the
Reimbursement
actual cost
of charges
covered is
in covered
subject to %100
countries (for
of the network
in-hospital
rates applied in
services only)
the State.
Free access (within the network of %100 of actual
Emergency
healthcare providers) costs covered
treatment within
Reimbursement of expenses owed
the geographic %100 of actual
(outside the network of healthcare
coverage area costs covered
providers in the UAE)
56
Executive Council Resolution no. (2) of 2023
concerning the Establishment of a Free Zone
Specialised in the Military and Security Sector within
Tawazun Industrial Park
The Executive Council has decided the following:
1. The land plot highlighted on the annexed map shall be deemed as a free
zone with an overall space of (2,800,000 square meters), allocated for
Tawazun Industrial Park LLC.
2. The Free Zone shall be allocated for the execution of operations related to
the defence and security industries as well as the activities related thereto
including, without limitation, the electronic activities, technology, fine
metal industries, vehicles, safety and security, research and development,
in addition to all services related thereto including logistic services.
3. Instruct the Department of Municipalities and Transport to take the
necessary procedures according to the approved rules.
4. Instruct Tawazun Industrial Park to coordinate with the Abu Dhabi Free
Zones Council according to the approved rules.
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 04 January 2023
Corresponding to: 11 Jumada Al Akher 1444 Hijri
57
58
written permission is required from the DMT. copyright. For any reproduction or publication, and information displayed are subject to & Transport. All Rights Reserved. All material © Copyright 2021 Department Of Municipalities Created by osama.fakhry Date 12/August/2022 Coordinate System WGS 1984
UTM
Zone
40N
Scale 1:50,000 0245490 980 1,470 1,960M
µ
CITY
ﺔﻳرﻜـــــﺴﻌﻟا ﺪـــﻳاز ﺔـــﻨﻳﺪﻣ
MILITARY
ZAYED
MUWAYLIH
AJBAN
P161
P1
INDUSTRIAL
ةﺮﺣ ﺔﻘﻄﻨﻣ حﺮﺘﻘﻣ
!.6
!.5
KHALIFA
Region Al Dhafra
MUWAYLIH
Abu Dhabi
Al
Ain
5
2,800,000
Sq.m
!.4
1
!.1
!.2
!.3
P20
P2b3
RCH18
P175
RCH3RCH2
1,703.9 m
m
6.527,1 m
2.870,1
587.1
m
667.3 m m 000,1
Document
Path:
\\upcfsd\UFM\PROJECTS\5500.0\3_WORKSPACE\Plot
Related
Tasks\Abu
Dhabi
Metro\AD
Mainland\zayed
military
city\5\ةرﺣ
ﻖطﺎﻧﻣ ﻲﺿارأ
صﯾﺻﺧﺗ\Workspace\نزاوﺗ
- ةرﺣ
ﺔﻘطﻧﻣ حرﺗﻘﻣ.mxd
ﻲﻋﺎﻨﺼﻟا
نزاﻮﺗ
ﻊﻤﺠﻣ
6 286560.07
2720089.71
5 288284.44
2720023.56
4 288309.83
2720690.40
3 288207.05
2721685.08
2 287623.06
2721624.63
1 286558.18
2721793.60
point X
Y
DMT-SDD
ZAYED MILITARY CITY_5 ةﺮﺣ ﺔﻘﻄﻨﻣ حﺮﺘﻘﻣ
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280
162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280162300528016230052801623005280 ADEO-RES-2023-0003
Executive Council Resolution No. (4) of 2023
concerning The Reformation of the Committee of
Objections and the Remuneration of its Members
The Executive Council has decided the following:
1. The Committee of Objections shall be reformed under the chairmanship
of Judge Khaled Ahmed Al-Kuwaiti, and the membership of:
• Mr. Khaled Mohammed Al-Kaabi member
• Mrs. Fatima Mohammed Al-Murar member
• Mrs. Mariam Mohammed Al-Kaabi member
• Mr. Soheil Rashid Al-Neyadi member
• Mr. Mohammed Youssef Al-Zaabi member and rapporteur
2. The Committee may, for the purpose of carrying out its competencies,
assume the following:
• Form working teams consisting of its members or others to assist it in
assuming its functions or studying specific subject-matters.
• Seek the assistance of any experts and competent persons it deems
appropriate.
• Request any information or documents from governmental entities to
carry out its competencies.
3. The Committee of Objections shall submit quarterly reports about the
performance and the functioning of the Committee to the Executive
Council.
4. Instruct the Human Resources Authority in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi
to amend the monthly remuneration of the Committee’s members to
become (AED 6000).
5. Instruct the Human Resources Authority in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi to
provide the necessary administrative support to the Committee.
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 20 January 2023
Corresponding to: 27 Jumada Al Akher 1444 Hijri
59
Executive Council Resolution No. (6) of 2023
concerning The Regulation of Appointment to the
Positions of Experts and Consultants in Governmental
Entities
The Executive Council has decided the following:
The Regulation of Appointment to the Positions of Experts and Consultants
in Governmental Entities, attached to this Resolution, shall be applied.
Saif Saeed Ghobash
Secretary-General
Issuance Date: 27 January 2023
Corresponding to: 05 Rajab 1444 Hijri
60
Regulation Concerning the Appointment to the Positions
of Experts and Consultants in Governmental Entities
Article (1)
Appointment to the positions of experts and consultants in governmental
entities shall be made in accordance with the provisions and rules stipulated
in Law No. (6) of 2016 concerning Human Resources in the Emirate of Abu
Dhabi and its Executive Regulation and the Schedule of Grades and Salaries
for Abu Dhabi Government Employees.
Article (2)
By way of exception from the provisions of the preceding article of this
Regulation, the governmental entity may appoint exceptional talents for
some of the positions of experts and consultants under special contracts
for a limited period, when the need of the governmental entity so requires
according to the following:
First: Conditions of Appointment:
1. The candidate shall fulfil the appointment conditions stipulated in Law No.
(6) of 2016 concerning Human Resources in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and
its Executive Regulation.
2. The candidate shall have a practical experience of no less than (13) years
in the same career field after obtaining the academic qualification.
3. There shall be a necessary need for appointment, and the job duties
and responsibilities shall be of temporary or emergency nature and
directly related to the nature of work of the governmental entity and the
implementation of its strategic plan.
4. The financial allocations necessary for appointment shall be available
within the approved budget of positions at the governmental entity.
Second: Controls of Appointment:
61
1. The contract term shall be two years at most and may be subject to
renewal, provided that the total term does not exceed four consecutive
years.
2. Among the job-related objectives in the annual performance plan of the
appointee, there shall be an objective related to the transfer of knowledge
to national employees, at a rate of (40%) of the total annual job-related
objectives.
3. The number of jobs of experts and consultants shall not exceed (10) at the
governmental entity.
4. The value of the annual financial allocations for the appointment of experts
and consultants shall not exceed (2%) of the total gross salaries allocated
to the employees of the governmental entity on annual basis.
5. The appointment shall be made in accordance with the contract form
approved for the experts and consultants by the Human Resources
Authority, and it may not be amended without obtaining the approval of
the Authority.
6. The candidate who is above (55) years of age for females and above (60)
years of age for males may be appointed.
Third: Determining the Job Grade and Salary:
• Appointment of experts and consultants shall be limited to the first and
second job grades only according to the Schedule of Salaries, Grading,
Allowances and Bonuses for Abu Dhabi government employees. The total
salary may be increased by a maximum of AED 190,000, provided that
the value of the increase is included in the supplementary bonus while
maintaining the other components of the total salary.
• When determining the total salary, the governmental entity shall follow the
method of gradual negotiation as per the work interest and based on the
average salaries in the labour market.
62
Article (3)
The provisions of this Regulation may be applied to any of the current
employees of the governmental entities in accordance with the conditions
and controls stipulated therein.
Article (4)
Where no special provision is stipulated in this Regulation, the Human
Resources rules and regulations in force in the Emirate shall apply.
Article 5
This Regulation shall be effective from the date of its issuance.
63
United Arab Emirates
The Emirate Of Abu Dhabi
Issued By The Gereral Secretariat of The Executive Council
of The Emirate Of Abu Dhabi
Office of Legal Affairs
Abu Dhabi - P.O. Box: 19
Tel: +971 26688446 Fax: +971 26669981

